Prepare release notes for 1.29+ck2 and now 1.29+ck3 (#843)
charmed-kubernetes/kubernetes-docs: pages/k8s/upgrade-notes.md

with container profiles not surviving an upgrade in clouds running on LXD. If your container-based applications fail to work properly after an upgrade, please see this [topic on the troubleshooting page](/kubernetes/docs/troubleshooting#charms-deployed-to-lxd-containers-fail-after-upgradereboot)

<a  id="1.29"> </a>

## Upgrading to 1.29

There are several important changes starting in 1.29 that will effect all users:

 - `kubeapi-load-balancer`, `kubernetes-control-plane`, and `kubernetes-worker` charms 
    can be observed using the COS rather than LMA.
 - Dropped specific relations and features which are outsourced to other charms

### Observability Relations

These represent relations which were slated to be removed in favour of observability with the COS.

LMA Relations:

* `nrpe-external-master` (provides: `nrpe-external-master` on KCP and KW)
* `prometheus` (provides: `prometheus-manual` on KCP)
* `scrape` (provides: `prometheus` on KW)
* `grafana` (provides: `grafana-dashboard` )

In order to prepare for observability, see the [Integration with COS Lite
docs][cos] which can be performed following an upgrade of the charms but prior

> to upgrade of the kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to upgrade of the Kubernetes cluster.
```

### kube-api-endpoint relation dropped

The `kubernetes-control-plane:kube-api-endpoint` and
`kubernetes-worker:kube-api-endpoint` relations have been removed since these

> APIs are are provided by the kube-control relation. Ensure these two apps are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APIs are are provided by the `kube-control` relation. Ensure these two apps are
```

linked by `kube-control` relation before removing this relation.

```
juju integrate kubernetes-control-plane:kube-control kubernetes-worker:kube-control
juju remove-relation kubernetes-control-plane:kube-api-endpoint kubernetes-worker:kube-api-endpoint
```

### loadbalancer relation dropped

The `kubernetes-control-plane:loadbalancer` relation has been removed in favour
of using the `loadbalancer-internal` and `loadbalancer-external` relations.

```
juju integrate kubernetes-control-plane:loadbalancer-internal kubeapi-loadbalancer
juju integrate kubernetes-control-plane:loadbalancer-external kubeapi-loadbalancer
juju remove-relation kubernetes-control-plane:loadbalancer kubeapi-loadbalancer
```

### ceph-client relation deprecated

The `kubernetes-control-plane:ceph-client` relation is being deprecated.

> Investment in Ceph integration continues, but in the `ceph-csi` charm

Reviewer: 'Investment' seems like an odd choice. Perhaps something like this is clearer?

```suggestion
Ceph integration is still a priority, but continues with the `ceph-csi` charm
```

which integrates Ceph with Kubernetes.

After upgrading the `kubernetes-control-plane` charm, the charm
may enter `blocked` status with the message:
`ceph-client relation deprecated, use ceph-csi charm instead`.

> If you see this message, you can resolve it by removing the ceph-client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you see this message, you can resolve it by removing the `ceph-client`
```

relation:

```
juju deploy ceph-csi
juju integrate ceph-csi kubernetes-control-plane
juju integrate ceph-csi ceph-mon
juju remove-relation kubernetes-control-plane:ceph-client ceph-mon
```

### Keystone/K8s Authentication management

Charmed Kubernetes was installing and managing an older version of 
keystone-auth which manages authentication and authorisation

> through keystone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
through Keystone.
```

This service is better suited to be managed externally from the
`kubernetes-control-plane` charm. However, the charm provides the following
upgrade method to maintain the deployment of this service beyond 1.28.

> One can determine if Keystone management is applicable with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One can determine if Keystone management is applicable with:
```

```
juju status --relations | grep kubernetes-control-plane:keystone-credentials
```

If this is empty, no steps regarding Keystone management are required.

If this states:

```
keystone:identity-credentials  kubernetes-control-plane:keystone-credentials   keystone-credentials    regular
```

...then you'll need to prepare a bit before the upgrade.

#### Resources

> One should familiarise themself with k8s-keystone auth via the [upstream docs][keystone-auth]

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
The [upstream Keystone docs][keystone-auth] cover keystone-auth in detail and should be the main reference for implementation details.
```

- `keystone-ssl-ca` config

Before upgrading, it is important to capture the state of these config options:

```
mkdir keystone-upgrade
juju config kubernetes-control-plane keystone-policy > keystone-upgrade/keystone-policy.yaml
juju config kubernetes-control-plane enable-keystone-authorization > keystone-upgrade/keystone-authorization
juju config kubernetes-control-plane keystone-ssl-ca | base64 -d > keystone-upgrade/keystone-webhook-ca.crt
juju exec -u kubernetes-control-plane/leader -- 'cat /root/cdk/keystone/webhook.yaml' > keystone-upgrade/webhook.yaml
```

#### Migration

After upgrading, the charm will enter a `blocked` state with the status
message: `Keystone credential relation is no longer managed`. This indicates
that the `k8s-keystone-auth` webhook service is still running, but is no longer
managed.

If `keystone-upgrade/keystone-authorization` contains `true`, then the webhook
should be enabled. This command adds the Keystone authorisation webhook config
and the `Webhook` authorisation mode:

``` 
juju config kubernetes-control-plane \
    authorization-webhook-config-file="$(cat keystone-upgrade/webhook.yaml)" \
    authorization-mode="Node,RBAC,Webhook"
```

> Finally, acknowledge the charm no longer manages keystone by removing the relation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, acknowledge the charm no longer manages Keystone by removing the relation:
```
